README.md, before:

# Technical assesment 

## What is it
What I have built is event driven architecture to load data into a table and have it accessable to technical and non-technical stakeholders. The data is held in a database and is available in a api as well as a dashboard (For the non-technical stakeholder).

### Principals I have followed
- Keep it simple, 1 pipeline, 1 database and 1 api
- All of this is to show how I code and how i approach problems, the dashboard and api are not production ready.
- Any time building infrastructure is time well spent.

# Tasks
## Problem solving
### Assumptions
Common-preference
1. The minimum number any value can be is the length of the value
    e.g the prefix will always start with a length of 0 with the suffix having a len of the value
2. You want the maximum amount of matachable text. 
    eg if the text is abc and the match is abc. That is 3, rather than 1 as a matches with a.

All tests are contained in the folders of the code it is testing. I usually do this for Lambda functions to put the tests in the same place as the function (especially if there is multiple functions in the same code base, and i build from asset). This way it uploads to AWS, so if anyone needs to check my lambda function they have more code/info to debug. Costs a little in space, but minimal compared to the value. 

# AWS 
## CSV ingestion pipeline 

### Basic stack
csv -> s3 -> dynamodb -> api gateway

### Visulisation stack
s3 -> Quicksight -> dashboard

[Quicksight dashboard](https://eu-central-1.quicksight.aws.amazon.com/sn/dashboards/6b406573-0b54-4377-b13f-9ce15aa63178/sheets/6b406573-0b54-4377-b13f-9ce15aa63178_a7b1db2a-b95d-407b-b5ef-fa9dd74b7b89)

### Infrastrucutre diagram
![infrastructure](./assets/infrastructure_diagram.png "Infrastructure")

### Code details
Problem solving:
    Pretty self explanatory, all tests within the folders of the challenge

aws:
    bin: Main stack 
    lib: Individual stacks
    src: Lambda functions 

All tests within the lambda folders functions as explained above. 

To run tests, run 'pytest' from the root folder

### To deploy 

Make sure you have the AWS CDK installed
```
npm install -g aws-cdk
```

Bootstrap the project if its the first time CDK has run in your region
```
cdk bootstrap
```

Synth the stacks locally 
```
cdk synth --all 
```
Deploy
``` 
cdk deploy --all
```

I did not upload the file as part of the CDK, I left it to upload to simulate the put request. 
To try this at home, from the root directory folder upload the data to the bucket (You need aws cli installed).
```
aws s3 cp assets/data.csv s3://postnlpipelinestoragebucket
```

Commit message:

Added details for the api change

README.md, after:

# Technical assesment 

## What is it
What I have built is event driven architecture to load data into a table and have it accessable to technical and non-technical stakeholders. The data is held in a database and is available in a api as well as a dashboard (For the non-technical stakeholder).

### Principals I have followed
- Keep it simple, 1 pipeline, 1 database and 1 api
- All of this is to show how I code and how i approach problems, the dashboard and api are not production ready.
- Any time building infrastructure is time well spent.

# Tasks
## Problem solving
### Assumptions
Common-preference
1. The minimum number any value can be is the length of the value
    e.g the prefix will always start with a length of 0 with the suffix having a len of the value
2. You want the maximum amount of matachable text. 
    eg if the text is abc and the match is abc. That is 3, rather than 1 as a matches with a.

All tests are contained in the folders of the code it is testing. I usually do this for Lambda functions to put the tests in the same place as the function (especially if there is multiple functions in the same code base, and i build from asset). This way it uploads to AWS, so if anyone needs to check my lambda function they have more code/info to debug. Costs a little in space, but minimal compared to the value. 

# AWS 
## CSV ingestion pipeline 

### Basic stack
csv -> s3 -> dynamodb -> api gateway

### Visulisation stack
s3 -> Quicksight -> dashboard

[Quicksight dashboard](https://eu-central-1.quicksight.aws.amazon.com/sn/dashboards/6b406573-0b54-4377-b13f-9ce15aa63178/sheets/6b406573-0b54-4377-b13f-9ce15aa63178_a7b1db2a-b95d-407b-b5ef-fa9dd74b7b89)

### Infrastrucutre diagram
![infrastructure](./assets/infrastructure_diagram.png "Infrastructure")

### Code details
Problem solving:
    Pretty self explanatory, all tests within the folders of the challenge

aws:
    bin: Main stack 
    lib: Individual stacks
    src: Lambda functions 

All tests within the lambda folders functions as explained above. 

To run tests, run 'pytest' from the root folder

# API usage
The api is simple, it either does a scan of all columns and values if no arguments are passed. If you want to reduce the column size and return only specific columns add details to the headers as follows. 

headers = {columns:[list_of_columns]}

### To deploy 

Make sure you have the AWS CDK installed
```
npm install -g aws-cdk
```

Bootstrap the project if its the first time CDK has run in your region
```
cdk bootstrap
```

Synth the stacks locally 
```
cdk synth --all 
```
Deploy
``` 
cdk deploy --all
```

I did not upload the file as part of the CDK, I left it to upload to simulate the put request. 
To try this at home, from the root directory folder upload the data to the bucket (You need aws cli installed).
```
aws s3 cp assets/data.csv s3://postnlpipelinestoragebucket
```
